This has been a lot of talking.
I mean, we're a decent amount into this
course we have not done anything yet,
so let's do something.
So I have to kinda give you disparate
instructions depending on what your
operating system is.
You can see here I have my Mac running.
So I'll be showing you obviously
all this stuff from a Mac, but
this should also work for Windows and
this will also work for Linux.
So I'll just say, if you're already
running a Linux computer, congratulations,
you're already finished.
You can use Linux on Linux, right?
I don't think that's much
of a secret to anybody.
But if you're on macOS or
if you're on Windows,
you're gonna have to do
some extra steps here.
So we're gonna go through
something called virtualization.
You've probably heard
the abbreviation of VM before, so
we're gonna set up
a Linux VM on your computer.
And a VM is just an operating system
running within another operating system.
So you basically have a host machine,
which will be my Mac, right?
And it's basically going to create
a virtual computer inside of it that
I'm going to access through my Mac.
That process is called virtualization.
And that VM must can have access
to any like real hardware.
Basically, your host computer is
going to fake access to memory,
access to all that kinda stuff,
and it's going to give that access
to the guest machine,
the VM that's running inside of it.
So at this point,
we're gonna get your VM up and running.
So I'm gonna give you a couple options.
The one that I'm gonna suggest
to you is one called Multipass.
So if you go to multipass.run, like that,
you'll end up on this website.
This is from Canonical.
You can see up here, this is actually
an official project from Canonical,
and it's just a mini VM runner for
Ubuntu on your computer.
It's super easy to get up and
running with.
So if you go back to my page here,
not that one, this one.
So I gave you instructions here for
Windows 10, and instructions for macOS.
So just go ahead and click on this, and go
through this, and I'm gonna leave that so
that you follow their instructions,
cuz they'll keep this up to date for you.
But for Mac, it's really as easy, it's
just downloading something off of GitHub,
installing it, and
then you'll get this little orange thing
that you can see up here in my toolbar.
That's what Multipass is, and it's
relatively the same process for, oops,
let's go back here, it's relatively
the same process for Windows 10.
The one thing that I want to call out,
if you are on Windows 10 Home,
you have to install VirtualBox, okay?
If you're on Windows 10 Professional or
Education or Enterprise,
you don't need to do anything else,
you just need to install Windows 10, so
you need to just install Multipass and
you're good to go.
But if you're on Windows 10 Home,
you have to install one more tool,
which will be VirtualBox,
which I have down here as well.
So I'm just gonna reemphasize that cuz
I know people are gonna ask me later,
if you have Windows 10 Home,
be sure you install VirtualBox.
Okay, so once you go through that,
it'll give you this little thing up here,
and you can open the shell.
So if I just click Open Shell here,
you can see immediately
it drops me into Ubuntu.
And for macOS, you just install it and
it should work.
So the other option I do wanna give you,
you can just use VirtualBox directly
whether you're on Mac OS or Windows or
Linux, VirtualBox works
on all three of them.
It's a project from Oracle that allows
you to run VMs whenever you want.
It's just a little bit more
process to get that up and
running because you have to
install the installer as well.
So I'm going to suggest
everyone use Multipass.
So, and I did leave some instructions
here if you want to go through and
do VirtualBox, I'm not gonna again walk
through them, but at the end of it,
if you do VirtualBox,
it will look like this.
And then lastly for just Windows 10 users,
you can do WSL, and
I left some instructions there.
WSL allows you to run a Linux
kernel within Windows,
I'm not gonna get too much into that.
If you wanna go down that pathway, that's
actually what I do on my personal laptop,
is used WSL, but
that's not available to everyone.
So does anyone have any questions or
concerns about installing Multipass?
That's really what I think you should do,
unless you have a strong opinion
that you should do something else.
>> Can you use Windows Subsystem for
Linux?
>> Yep, actually, that was the last
thing I was talking about here for
WSL users right here.
So Windows Subsystem for Linux is WSL and
I left the doc here for
getting it up and running on Windows.
I would definitely suggest
getting WSL2 if you wanna on WSL.
As of Windows Update 2004,
which most Windows
computers should be on now,
you can get WSL2 whether you have Home or
Pro versions of Windows.
If you're on older, like 1906,
you have to be on WSL1,
or sorry, [COUGH] excuse me,
yeah, only WSL1 will work.
So anyway, yes,
WSL will work great for this course.
>> Is virtualization and
emulation, is that the same?
>> You know, I don't actually really know
the difference between those two things.
I think emulation is you're
emulating specific hardware,
like when I hear emulators, I think
of emulating video game ROMs, right,
where you have your computer pretending
to be different hardware than it is.
Whereas I think virtualization is actually
just creating subsets of resources and
giving a guest machine
access to those resources.
So it's not like you're really
emulating anything of sorts.
In fact, you're not, right?
Everything is still the same instruction
set, whereas emulation, you're actually
changing instructions on the fly to
try and pretend to be something else.
But you might wanna check me on that,
that's just me pulling
stuff out of somewhere.
>> Do you know the main difference
between WSL 1.0 and WSL 2.0?
>> I do, WSL2 is actually virtualized.
So it's a it's a real VM,
it runs on Microsoft Hyper-V,
whereas WSL1 was doing
a translation basically,
it was more like an emulation, I suppose.
So it was a lot slower,
in particular when it had to do cross,
when talking from Windows to Linux and
Linux back,
it was super, super slow,
whereas Hypervisor is quite fast.
So suffice to say, they basically read
totally redid WSL from the ground
up from WSL1 to WSL2, and
it's just 100 times faster.
I don't think I'm even exaggerating.
I think it's actually
over 100 times faster.
The virtual file system in WSL1 was so
slow that when you did NPM installs inside
of WSL, it would take minutes just
because of the file IO between back and
forth of writing files.
And now NPM install on WSL can sometimes
be faster than natively running Linux.
>> And there's quite a few people asking
about if they can just continue on
with bash if they have Mac
rather than virtualizing Linux
>> Wouldn't suggest it.
You're certainly gonna run
into some differences,
because they are, like I said,
different things.
So I would suggest getting into
Multipass and running Linux.
You don't have to, I mean,
it will mostly work, but
part of the point of this course is also
to learn a little bit of Linux as well.